Hello everyone! We are starting a new section. We will deal with weapons.
I copied all the content we need from the shooter game - these are two skeletal meshes.
One of them is a launcher, it will shoot missiles here.
The second mesh is the rifle. Will shoot with regular cartridges. We will actually start with it.
In this lesson, we will create an actor who will be responsible for the weapon. Let's spawn it
and attach it to our character. Let's get started. Go to the folder with C ++ classes.
Let's create a base weapon class. This will be an actor. Let's call it STUBaseWeapon.
And put it in the new Weapon folder. Click on create class.
In the build file, I added the Weapon folder. We have already done this for other directories.
Go to our BaseWeapon file, remove the Tick function. We will not need it in this class.
We clean the comments, format the file. We'll start with the look of our weapon.
Let's create a property for this, which will store a pointer to the skeletal mesh of our weapon.
We have already implicitly worked with the skeletal mesh in the ACharacter class, we used the skeletal mesh of the character.
A skeletal mesh, just like a regular mesh, has polygons, that is, it has a certain appearance.
And additionally there is a hierarchy of bones with which you can animate this mesh.
Actually what we did with you in the case of our character. The type in C ++ is called USkeletalMeshComponent.
We create a pointer to this type and called it WeaponMeshComponent.
Add a forward declaration for this type, above the class.
Go to the BaseWeapon .cpp file. Let's clean it up a bit too. Let's remove unnecessary comments.
We removed the Tick function.
We set the value of the bCanEverTick variable to false. We don't need a Tick loop in this class.
We include the header file SkeletalMeshComponent. We create an object of this class in the constructor.
Likewise, how we created other components.
And let's make this component the root one.
Let's start the editor, create a blueprint and set the model of our weapon.
Create a new content folder. We call it Weapon.
We inherit from our C ++ class. Create a blueprint.
We call it BP_STUBaseWeapon.
Go inside the blueprint. The skeletal mesh component has been created and in the details panel we can
set one of the skeletal mesh available to us. Let's install Rifle.
In the upper right corner, we can adjust the speed of the camera in the viewport to make it smoother.
Save the blueprint. Our next task: we must spawn this weapon into the world
and attach it to our character in such a way that the transformation of the weapon is calculated
relative to our character. First, let's open a blueprint with a character.
Double click on the property with skeletal mesh. We get into the character editor.
On the left we have a skeleton tree panel. All bones of the character are represented here. In the details panel on the right,
you can also see the relative transformations of the bones. The skeleton characters also have virtual bones,
that is, they are not represented graphically in any way, but they have transformations. Right-
click on this virtual bone and select AddSocket from the menu. Socket is a special
object in the skeletal mesh. We can add socket to absolutely any bone. In essence, this object
is a transformation. In the details panel, we can see the socket name, parent bone
name and also position, rotation and scale. Let's simplify the name by simply calling it WeaponSocket.
Sockets in the skeleton are used in different ways, for example, we will use this socket precisely for
attaching our weapons. Also, in the future, in our weapon, we will use the socket
as the point of fire, that is, this is a certain named transformation in the skeletal mesh, which can be
obtained both in the code and in the blueprints. In the editor, you can see
how the attached mesh will look like to this socket. If we right click on the socket,
we can select the preview asset. Let's find the Rifel and select our rifle from the list.
Rifle mesh has been added to the editor. Socket transformation is single and our rifle is oriented incorrectly.
We can fix this by changing the relative rotation of the RelativeRotation socket and the rifle
will be oriented correctly. The Preview asset is also saved in the other tabs of the
persona editor, so we can go to Animation and adjust the transformation to a more
specific character pose. Let's also lower the camera speed in the viewport - set it to one.
On the left, we also have a skeleton tree available, so here we can also change the transformation of the socket.
Let's rotate it along the X-axis so that the rifle is oriented along with the character.
And if we fly closer with the camera, we will make sure that this transformation suits us,
because the rifle sits more or less neatly in the character's hands. Also in the details panel, you can
explicitly specify rotation at x = -90, and at y and at z = 0. And if you and I, for example, open
some other animation, for example, RunForward, we will see that the socket transformation is correct
and the weapon is fixed in the hands of our character. And also, if we start the game, then there are no weapons
in the hands of the character, because this is a preview asset. We have not done any spawn yet.
Let's get down to it now. Let's create a function in our character class. Let's call it SpawnWeapon.
This function will spawn weapons and attach to the mesh socket of our character.
We need a property with the class of the weapon we want to spawn.
Copy the property macro. Change the category to weapon and use the TSublassOf template.
The template parameter will be the ASTUBaseWeapon weapon class.
Let's call the property WeaponClass.
And add a forward declaration of this class to the top of the BaseCharacter.h
file. Go to the .cpp file. We immediately include the STUBaseWeapon.h header file.
We will spawn the weapon on BeginPlay. Add a call to the SpawnWeapon function to the BeginPlay function.
And at the very bottom of our .cpp file, let's create the body of the SpawnWeapon function.
We need to do two things - the first is to spawn the actor directly and the second
to attach our character to the mesh. The actor spawn function is located in the game world object.
Therefore, to begin with, let's check that the pointer to the world is non-null, if it is null, then we immediately exit the function.
If not, then we call a templated function on the UWorld object called SpawnActor.
We pass the STUBaseWeapon class as a template parameter, and we specify our WeaponClass variable
as an argument . We will not change the transformation. It will be single by default.
Also, the SpawnActor function returns a pointer to the created actor object,
so we can store this object in a variable. Let's call it Weapon.
We check that the given object has been created, that is, the Weapon pointer is non-zero.
Now we need to attach this actor to our character's mesh. To do this, we will use a
function called AttachToComponent.
This function has several arguments. The first is a pointer to the component to which we want to
attach this actor. The second argument is FAttachmentTransformRules. We will now take a closer look at what it is.
And the third optional parameter is the name of the socket. We will indicate the socket that
we created for the mesh. To get a pointer to a character's mesh, the ACharacter class has a function
called GetMesh. It returns a pointer to the skeleton mesh component.
The second parameter is for now the stub variable - AttachmentRules. We are going to create it now.
And the last parameter is the name of the socket. We named it WeaponSocket.
We create the AttachmentRules variable. It is of type FAttachmentTransformRules.
This structure has several constructors. Let's hit f12 on the type.
This is the first constructor that accepts an EAttachmentRule enum, we'll move on to it a bit later.
In this constructor, the AttachmentRule is applied to all basic transformations: location, rotation,
and scale uniformly. In the second constructor, we can apply AttachmentRule asynchronously,
that is, specify different AttachmentRule for location, rotation and scale. There is also an additional
parameter called bWeldSimulatedBodies. It belongs to physics. He is responsible for
how the physics simulation will take place when two bodies are attached to each other.
We are not interested in this parameter and therefore we will simply set it to false. Press f12 on AttachmentRule.
We see that this is an enum. It has 3 elements: KeepRelative, KeepWorld and SnapToTarget.
Each of these elements is responsible for how the final transformation matrix will be calculated.
We will be using SnapToTarget. With this rule, actors inherit the transformation of the component
to which we attach it. KeepWorld will initially calculate the relative
transformation between the position of the actor in the world and the position of the component to which we attach
this actor and this will be taken into account in the final transformation matrix, and KeepRelative will
multiply the final transformation by the relative transformation matrix of the actor, if it exists.
So let's call the first constructor for our AttachmentRules object. We specify the enum value
EAttachmentRule :: SnapToTarget and set the second parameter, which is responsible for the simulation of physical bodies
, to false. Everything, thus, on BeginPlay we will have a spawn of an actor of the WeaponClass type.
And after that we attach this object to our mesh using the WeaponSocket transformation.
We go into the blueprint of our character. We need to specify the weapon class that we want to spawn.
In details, in the weapon section, specify BP_BaseWeapon. We start the game. Our weapons have spawned
and the transformation matrix of the weapon object now depends on the transformation of our socket.
That is, its transformation is now the parent of our weapon object.
Let's pull an additional character onto the stage and see that his weapon spawns as well.
It works correctly. Two characters. Everyone has their own weapon. As an independent work, I recommend that
you experiment with AttachmentRules. See how they differ.